near the coast the sea is as solid as
ever
the sun is low and the midday
temperature is 10
below at the emperor colony
spring has made life easier the edge of
the ice is nearer than it used to be
and getting food for the chicks is that
much quicker
on the other hand the chicks are growing
fast and are a lot more demanding
the parents are in a constant relay race
to keep young stomachs filled
as the sea ice melts a little more each
day so each day the trip is shorter
[Music]
the antarctic is a strange upside down
sort of place
with nothing much on the surface and an
abundance
below it
[Applause]
sometimes it's easy to forget that
penguins are birds that they are
and they're flying birds too it's just
that they live on top of their sky
they hunt fish and squid like swallows
catching insects
no other birds fly faster underwater
emperor penguins can hold their breath
for
20 minutes they can dive beyond the
reach of sunlight a
mile down
they hunt in an ocean that at this time
of the year gets an explosion of new
food
it happens here under the crumbling ice
of the nursery for fish and krill
their refuge is melting and they aren't
safe anymore from the penguins
seals and whales
[Music]
the ice is also releasing a boost of
minerals in particular
iron the sun shining through the ice
sparks the growth of green algae which
feed the krill
that ice home disappears suddenly the
krill have to take that important place
in the wider world
and seeking safety in numbers they
gather in colossal swarms
the sheer mass of the antarctic krill is
greater than the mass
the total weight of any other animal on
earth
mammals and birds come from all over the
world to transfer some of that weight to
themselves
including animals that are already among
the largest
it's krill in fact that makes the
biggest whales
even possible
[Applause]
you